# cf-ddns
Shell script to update Cloudflare DNS records when an IP change is detected. This script attempts to be fully POSIX-compliant and as such does not use any bashisms or other creature comforts provided by more full-featured shells. It also tries to stick to only using standard *Nix core utils where possible - the only external dependency is `curl`, which should either be already installed or in the repositories of most Linux distributions, including the one which I intend to run this script in (Alpine).

## Disclaimer:
A large portion of this code was generated by Claude Sonnet 4.6, with some alterations by me. I wrote this for my own personal use so I could learn more about shell scripting and it is only intended for my own personal use - I  cannot guarantee its reliability or security! I reccommend using something created by actual smart people if you're looking for a DDNS solution yourself, like one of the following:
1. cloudflare-ddns: https://github.com/favonia/cloudflare-ddns
2. ddclient: https://github.com/ddclient/ddclient

## Quick Start:
1. Clone the repository (duh)
2. Copy the template secrets file to `secrets.env` and fill in the required information (You'll need to make an API call to get the DNS record ID, [see here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/api/resources/dns/subresources/records/methods/list))
3. Make the script executable (also duh)
4. Run the script - if configured correctly it should log that your IP has changed + been updated, or it will exit silently if no change is required.
5. You did it!!! Good girl :3 (or boy! or they! I wont assume)

You'll probably want to set up a cronjob or systemd timer or something to run this script automatically for you, too. Ruins the whole point if you have to log in and do it manually... *Especially since if your IP changed you might not even be able to do that.*

## To-do:
1. Helper script to fetch DNS record IDs from Cloudflare?
2. Helper script to set up a cronjob?

